Title: Supporting Student's Academic Success
Source: Amherst College
URL: https://www.amherst.edu/academiclife/support

Resources to Support Academic Success
Maybe you need to build or refine skills in areas such as writing, research, or quantitative realms. Perhaps you would benefit from knowing more about how you approach learning more generally, and about strategies that could help you achieve greater success in your courses. Maybe you have a documented disability, qualify for an accommodation, and need help gaining access to the many academic support services offered by the College. Amherst provides support in all of these areas—and many more. The College offers an array of resources to support students’ academic success, providing access to faculty advisors, experts in particular skill areas and in the science of how we learn, and entire offices that provide academic-support services that are focused and personalized. 

People
A faculty member advises a student during office hours.
Faculty Advisors
When it comes to shaping your education, particularly given all the choices you have with Amherst’s open curriculum, it is easy to feel overwhelmed or to decide to focus on what you know you’re already good at. Your faculty advisor will provide guidance and support—from helping with the process of choosing courses, to sharing their knowledge of different disciplines, to connecting you with others at the college who can help you meet your educational goals in the broadest sense (e.g., if you want to study away or secure a summer internship). A faculty member will serve as your “college advisor” until you declare a major, after which you will transition to an advisor who is a faculty member within the department or program in which you major.  Learn more online about advising resources for students. 

A professor and a student search though a bookshelf together.
Professors/Office Hours
Getting to know your professors is one of the best parts of an Amherst education, and going to office hours is a great way of doing so—and to get help when you need it. Some professors will let you know that you can drop by during the hours they have set aside to meet with students.  Others may ask you to make an appointment. These one-on-one conversations can be very helpful, and professors encourage students to meet with them. Office hours provide a space to raise questions or to receive help if you don’t fully understand a concept and/or assignment, as well as to discuss a topic about which you want to learn more.  Some professors may require students to meet with them individually as part of a course, using this time to provide personalized feedback on drafts of writing assignments, for example. 

A group of six men and women standing on the steps of a brick building with marble columns
Class Deans 
Did you know that each class year at Amherst has a class dean within the Office of Student Affairs? Your class dean can help you develop personal and educational goals and plans that will help you reach them, collaborate with faculty members to support your success in the classroom, facilitate access to academic and non-academic support services at the college, answer questions about many aspects of college life, and provide other forms of support—including during times when you are experiencing personal challenges and need assistance.  Learn more online about the class deans and what they do.

Peer tutoring at Amherst College
Peer Tutors
If you need some extra regular help with a course, would you feel most comfortable working with a fellow student?  Peer Tutoring in a wide range of disciplines is available free of charge to students who are enrolled in Amherst courses. The Strategic Learning Center coordinates the peer-tutoring program. Want to obtain a tutor? Learn about the steps online, and find information about the effective use of peer tutors. Peer tutoring may be done remotely (using FaceTime, Duo, Zoom, etc.) or in person.

Offices and Services
A student speaks to a reference librarian in the Frost Library.
Frost Library: Research and Instruction Librarians
Need help with how to approach a research project? You can always drop by the reference desk in Frost Library, and you can also meet individually with research librarians, who are available to guide you and help build your research skills using a wide range of tools. Each academic department has a librarian who partners with faculty to teach class sessions focusing on research skills in the context of specific courses and assignments. Learn more online about the research librarians. Students are strongly encouraged to talk with librarians about questions on research for papers, projects, and thesis work.

 

Three students in a classroom setting
The Strategic Learning Center
Feeling that learning time-management skills could help you accomplish your thesis or coursework? Having trouble focusing on assignments and retaining information? Wishing you had a better understanding of how you learn? Amherst’s Strategic Learning Center (SLC) assists students with skills related to how we think and learn, including those surrounding executive functioning (e.g., the capacity to manage time, multitask, plan ahead, and focus attention, among other thought processes) and metacognition (awareness and understanding of one's own learning processes).  The SLC offers workshops and other programs, as well as opportunities for students to work with the staff one-on-one to assess students’ needs, develop individualized learning plans, and connect students with other resources on campus that offer support.  

Students are invited to schedule an appointment with a member of the SLC staff to get help with a range of learning techniques, including note-taking, reading, and study strategies or to visit the SLC during its drop-in hours at the beginning of each semester (Tuesdays from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., and Thursdays from 10 a.m. to noon during the add/drop period).  The SLC is located in the Learning and Teaching Commons on the second floor of Frost Library. 

Writing Consultations
The Writing Center
The Writing Center: for Writing, Reading, and Public Speaking 

In the Writing Center, students learn to interpret prompts, brainstorm ideas, develop arguments, organize essays and presentations, practice, and revise. Students may schedule consultations with the Writing Center's team of professional writing and speaking associates for support at any stage of a project and all aspects of public speaking. In the Writing Center, students build confidence as writers, speakers, and readers in a supportive and creative environment. The Writing Center is located in the Learning and Teaching Commons on the second floor of Frost Library.

A person sitting outside writing in a journal
Intensive Writing Courses
Do you want to focus intensively on your writing? Intensive writing (IW) courses are designed to help students build writing skills, including how to construct an argument, express ideas, incorporate research, undertake an analysis—and more.  If you take an IW course, you can expect frequent feedback and support from your professor in a small-class environment.  Priority for enrollment usually goes to students who have been recommended for IW after participating in the directed self-placement survey during orientation. All students who are interested in improving their academic writing skills may request to take an IW course, with permission to do so depending on the availability of slots. Contact Kristina Reardon,  director of the Intensive Writing Program, if you have questions. Learn more online about the IW Program.

Moss Qualtitative Center
The Moss Quantitative Center (the “Q Center”)
Are you taking a math or science course and want to ensure that you are learning as well as you can?  Regardless of your academic background, the Q Center can help. The center works with math and science departments to support student learning outside the classroom.  The Q Center offers individual appointments, as well as drop-in hours and review sessions. Students can schedule appointments with staff for work in selected math, biology, chemistry, and physics courses and math comprehensive exams. The Q center is located in rooms D109, D107, and D111 in the joint Q Center/science library space in the science center and is always open for studying.  Learn more about the Q Center online.   

Students are displayed studying and hanging out on the first year quad on a sunny spring day.
Accessibility Services  
Do you have a disability and want to learn more about accommodations that are available and how to arrange for them? Accessibility Services provides the assistance you will need, collaborating with faculty and staff across campus to support access and equity for all students in an environment of mutual respect. The first step is to make an appointment with a member of the Accessibility Services staff.  The goal of these discussions is to gain a holistic understanding of your circumstances, and to work with you to identify reasonable accommodations that will support your full participation in all aspects of campus life.  Learn more online about Accessibility Services. If you think you might be eligible for accommodations and other services offered through Accessibility services, but are unsure, do not hesitate to reach out for an initial conversation at accessibility@amherst.edu. Information about other support services offered through the Office of Student Affairs.

A stack of books on a shelt.
Amherst College Textbook Solution
The Amherst College Textbook Solution (ACTS) will provide all enrolled students with the necessary textbooks and course materials required for classes. This campus-wide program will serve the needs of faculty and students, create greater educational equity, and ensure that the cost of course materials is never a barrier to taking a class. ACTS will start in the 2024–25 academic year.