Title: Campus Life at Amherst
Source: Amherst College
URL: https://www.amherst.edu/campus-life

What Is Amherst Really Like?
Image
two students, one with a bicycle, walk together along a campus path
It’s a small New England college that feels as big as you want it to be. It’s a place of cherished traditions and steady reinvention, with a true college-town feel. 

Located in Amherst, Massachusetts, a town of 35,000 people in the western part of the state, Amherst College has a scenic 1,000-acre campus adjacent to a thriving downtown.

You’ll have opportunities day and night. Hear a guest speaker, sing in an a cappella concert, discuss philosophy with friends, and volunteer in our local community — all in a single week. Or at your own pace! Explore the many aspects of social life at Amherst and see which ones excite you the most. 

Jazz at Schwemm's
Student Organizations
Students lead more than 100 autonomous organizations, including groups for activism, philosophy, arts,  intramural sports, religious and cultural affinity groups, and more — plus a debate team, a radio station, and the student newspaper.

All Organizations
Resources
three students sitting on the floor in a dorm room playing a board game
Housing
94 percent of students live on campus, and housing is guaranteed for all four years. First-year students live in new or renovated residences on the Main Quad. Our Theme Houses offer learning-by-living opportunities.

Residence Halls
Theme Houses
student eating lunch while talking with a friend in the dining hall
Dining
Enjoy locally produced, sustainable, and high-quality food in a variety of dining locations — from Valentine Hall to our Science Center Café.

Dining Services
peaceful scene of a lotus flower in a pond
Wellbeing, Health & Safety
The wellbeing of everyone on campus is a critical aspect of thriving at Amherst — individually and as a community. We have dedicated staff and comprehensive programs to support health, safety, and the many aspects of wellbeing. 

Wellbeing and More
two students hold a jackolantern at fall festival
Events
Amherst always has a full calendar with lots of community events, including our seasonal campus festivals — with lots of food and games — and much more. 

Calendar
Events at a Glance
Family Weekend game 2015
Fitness & Recreation
Athletics are a vibrant part of life at Amherst, from recreation to intramurals to 27 NCAA Division III teams. Facilities include playing fields, a fitness center, a pool, courts, and an ice rink.

Athletics
Wellness & Fitness